now that I've got a decent video camera
I want to give you guys a proper tour so
let's check it out
welcome to truck house live baby
[Music]
I basically wanted to build the cabin on
wheels I wanted something that was a
super fun super unique something that I
felt good about something I was proud to
own and this is the design I came up
with my head so the truck is in 1996
Ford f-350 as a Power Stroke diesel a
7.3 engine so it pulls the weight of the
camper awesome and can still pull
trailers or whatever else you need let's
get a six-inch lift that way I could get
35 inch tires on there your truck camper
takes a ton of abuse in the road just
from the vibration of the road and the
potholes it's essentially like your
house going through a 5.0 earthquake
constantly
so they have to be built strong if you
want them to last most commercially
manufactured campers are made out of one
by twos and they're held together with
staples and glue so of course the road
shakes them apart my number one priority
in building a camper was durability I
wanted it to withstand Road vibration
and potholes and not fall apart this
camper is over engineered in the
critical areas such as the corners in
the floor the places that are most
likely to fall apart on your camper to
compensate for beefing up the corners I
use two by twos along the walls so that
help lighten things up so another
priority in building the camper was a
unique aesthetic I really love the look
of natural wood and I wanted to keep
that look to it for a few reasons
number one people all over the world
work with wood so if something happens
while you're out there you can find a
general carpenter or do it yourself and
fix the camper like you need to
so to waterproof the wood I did it just
like you would do a wooden sailboat in
the ocean it's got varnish on it which
is essentially a waterproof gel coating
I used captain's varnish and do four
coats of captain's varnish all over the
outside on all the wood so all the
windows are double sealed there sild
with a silicone tape and then I also put
silicone on top of the silicone tape and
that just helps really waterproof the
windows and seal all the water out I
kept getting messages left under my
windshield wipers so I decided to just
put a little mailbox in there I thought
that's kind of funny you can see up
there in the roof I've got a 100 watt
solar panel and for the chimney flue I
use a three inch wind directional
chimney cap that just rotates around and
creates a nice vacuum so you can
actually have a fire going while you're
driving down the highway the roof of the
camper has a 512 pitch
so most campers out there have a flat
roof which water accumulates and puddles
up and leaks through so you get a lot of
water damage with a flat roof camper
this camper you don't have to worry
about that it sheds water off instantly
that way there's no chance of it pulling
up and it also sheds snow off that way
you don't have to worry about a heavy
snow load collapsing the roof of your
camper if you leave for a couple months
so the outside of the camper under the
plywood is wrapped with Tyva
just like typical house so waterproof
and breathable so helps the condensation
escape the roof has two layers of water
protection first being the metal roof it
just keeps the water off it period under
that you've got grace ice and water
shield super waterproof super awesome
rubberized membrane so it's got two
layers of protection on the front of the
truck I had a buddy Joe
well the custom front bulb are just for
added protection I mean I threw a worn
12,000 pound winch on here that thing's
already come in handy a few times
I would highly recommend putting airbags
in the rear suspension it just takes the
load off the springs and just helps
stabilize your ride here's the system
it's just a double collapsing double
hinged steer when release their one
release under the bottom and they fold
right out just like that nice and easy
to walk up nice need you to walk down
when you need to put them away
it takes a split second just like that
one latch under there one latch on the
side and you're on your way the campers
design so you can still see your brake
lights and signals and tail lights on
both sides but I went ahead for an extra
measure of safety and installed
additional just brake turn and running
lights as you can see I've got a couple
different tie down points there's
tie-down points up high for if you want
to do a side mount tie-down points and I
also installed some hidden ones down
here and it just connects down there to
the frame the front of the camper also
has a couple of different tie down
points there's one on the outside in
case you want to do a torque lift style
tie down to the frame I also have
tie-down points right in there so you
can tie directly into your bed here's a
reverse camera right here so you can
actually see when you're backing up
since you can't see through the camper
and there's a couple of seats in the
porch a one is storage for propane the
battery and the furnace exhaust the
other side you can store whatever you
want right now the wintertime I've got
firewood in there for the wood stove
super cozy to sit on and stay out of the
rain so you can sit down here with a
friend and taking the views under a nice
dry roof so the door um is completely
handmade it's five foot seven tall so
you have to dunk just slightly going
under if you're over five foot seven but
the porch is six foot three um so you
can totally stand up in the porch yeah
so let's go check out the interior Stoke
to show you guys and the door handle is
much better than your typical RV door
handle
it's got a deadbolt style lock on it and
just nice and strong and sturdy easy to
open and close it's got foam board
insulation in between this cedar panels
the inside of the door has weather
stripping all along the sides and the
door jamb also has weather stripping to
keep the cold weather out and the heat
in or vice versa in the summertime and
here is the interior now keep in mind
you're looking at an 8 foot truck bed so
we're able to squeeze a lot in this so
over here on the left side of the camper
you've got a full-sized propane oven so
you can bake lasagna cheesecake whatever
you want and a three range burner on top
instead of a sink i found that i don't
typically use a ton of water when a
camping or I try not to so I just did a
faucet style system instead so if you
need to wash dishes you can just place a
bowl over the sink and use that as a
basin then dump that gray water into the
toilet get your little pump sink the
water is super easy to fill up right
here six gallon jug take it out fill it
up anywhere you want up here you get a
fantastic fan it's pointed at the wood
stove and recirculates the warm air in
the winter around the camper so that
works really well down below the oven
you've got your propane furnace the
furnace has turned on with your
thermostat right here so uh that makes
it really cozy just being able to wake
up in the morning and hit the thermostat
and warm the camper up without getting
up you're probably wondering hey where's
the countertop space um sitting right
there folds down on the side this is
unfinished what you do is pop that up
and a little wooden dowel just holds it
in place when you're ready to take it
out you just pop the dowel out and fold
it down like that and you're done I just
have a simple cutting board and put a
little bracket in the bottom and it's
instant counter space just like that
take a ride back off and you're not
using it
between the folding counter space
attached to the oven and this other
counter space on this side there's
plenty enough to work with to do what
you need to do for cooking so there's a
couple of different charging ports in
the camper
ones over here near the kitchen let's
get a 12 volt plug and a couple USB
different power level charging stations
and just a little tray up there I built
to set your cell phone or batteries or
whatever you need to charge same thing
on this side you get a nice TV DVD
player so in a rainy day you can sit in
here and hang out over here above the
faucets you have a battery level
indicator which shows you your battery
level as you can tell there's plenty of
lighting in here the LED burns about
four Watts versus about sixty watts for
incandescent bulbs so saves you a lot of
power so one of my favorite parts about
this camper is you can have six people
sitting here extremely comfortably I
don't know of hardly any other RVs out
there that have two full-size couches on
them this sofa on this side on the
driver's side is a jackknife sofa and it
actually turns into a bed in a couple of
seconds just like that so you have a bed
you can sleep two people really cozy
when you're ready to put it away boom
just like that so you can sleep two
people on this side and one person on
this side so it sleeps three people very
comfortably in here storage I did not
want to put cabinets up high because
that creates a lot of swingweight with a
high center of gravity keeping your
storage down low it increases your
performance and your safety driving
around the couch on the side store is a
lot of stuff I keep all the bedding up
under here jackets sleeping bags stuff
like that works really well down here
you've got in floor storage so you lift
that up and you can fit all kinds of
stuff down there there's also storage
all down in here down below the driver's
side couch there's a Dometic CC 40
refrigerator freezer very simple just
take off the release strap and you can
slide it right on out and access
whatever you need to in there extremely
efficient runs off battery power instead
of propane so it'll last you a long time
and not use any propane pretty cool so
you've got your
bathroom rolls out nice and easy so you
have instant toilet and it goes right
back into place real easy so you have a
bathroom the toilet paper for the
bathroom is on a hanger right here above
the garbage can
so that's convenient so the wood stove
is a Kimberly wood stove
these are awesome wood stoves in camper
applications it's one of the only stoves
that I feel comfortable driving down the
highway with a fire going I'll put it
that way I've got a little firewood
racket built in the back so you can keep
some firewood inside overnight not have
to walk out onto the back porch to get
extra firewood
instead of a wall here I use glass that
way you can be sitting on this couch
over here and still see the fire at
night I did a porthole windows up front
nice and tinted so you can't really see
into them and they give you a nice view
of just what's going on on the front of
your car over the roof so that's pretty
nice now the windows in the camper are
one of the coolest parts these are
special windows there's a couple places
in the world where you can get them de
Matic makes them over in Europe and a
company called Megan makes them in Japan
so these are the Japanese version say
the windows open up really easily just
pop these latches right here and there's
different settings so you can get them
open to where you want when you're ready
to close them just lift up close and
latch when you're ready to go to sleep
at night there's a blind that rolls up
from the bottom really convenient for
privacy
and there's also a mosquito insect
screen on top if you want to leave the
windows open this summer one of the
other awesome parts of the camper is you
can totally stand up in the kitchen I'm
right at 6 feet tall I've got a couple
inches over my head so it's about six
foot three in the kitchen and goes to
about yeah about five feet tall at the
very front of the camper so there's
plenty of room to walk around as you all
know it's really cold in Alaska so I
didn't want to mess around with the
insulation in this camper I spray foamed
the roof and the walls so it's very air
tight when you turn on heat in here it
stays in here a lot longer than the will
and almost any other camper out there
one of my other priorities with the
camper was functionality I wanted to
have all the comforts of a large RV in
an eight-foot space
means it had to be very thoughtful and
mindful about where I was putting things
but in the same foot space I was able to
squeeze all the comforts of home
basically
[Music]